---
layout: post
title: "Personal Goals for the New Decade"
date: 2020-01-29
---

I've never been one for making new years resolutions, but having reached 2020, which was always miles into the future, I feel like it's a good time to make some plans to develop myself (I was hoping for neutral implants and the like by now, but they aren't forthcoming, so...).

My work means that I'm always learning technologies and processes to try to get things done smarter and more efficiently. That's not going to change, and there are some things that I undoubtedly want to improve or skill-up on there, but I've never really set myself goals before for developing in areas where I didn't really need to. I think it's important to make a plan for a better work/life balance.

Fitness. Like a lot of people at the start of a new year, I could do with getting fitter. I have a very sedentary lifestyle and a sub-optimal diet. I used to keep my weight down through lots of walking, but now that I commute by car that doesn't happen any more. I'm not going to change my eating habits, nor am I going to carve out time to go to a gym. Later in the year my office is moving to within a 45-50 minute walk from home, so I'm going to ditch the car at that point and walk (arthritis be damned!) and that should do the trick. So I'm parking this until then.

Reading. I've never really kept track of how much I read before last year, when I finished 20 books. I'm certain that was a personal best, but I'm sure I can do better. I like to listen to audiobooks on my commute, and I'll actually have more time to do that when I'm walking to work. To that end, I've supplemented by usual 1 credit a month on Audible by picking up a few additional books in their recent sales. I'm already ahead, having finished three novels and a history book by 29th January. I'll try to get the odd Kindle-based book in too, but after more than two decades of staring at computer screens, I'm also trying to limit eye-strain. I'm using a completely wonderful Kindle Paperwhite, but I still want to let my eyes rest or focus on things further away more when I'm not working.

Music. As a child I had piano lessons and advanced to somewhere around grade 3 or 4 before giving it up because my elderly tutor always had me playing music that wasn't interesting to young me. Giving it up is one of the few regrets I have in life, so last summer I purchased a digital piano so I could pick it up again. I've been playing a few pieces, and doing free 10 minute lessons with the Yousician app. That's got me roughly back to where I think I was as a 10 year old, but I really want to be able to take it to the next level, so to that end I'm working through an excellent book called "Piano By Ear" by Lucinda Mackworth-Young. For about a year I've been singing in the office choir, which is the first time I've sung for audiences since a few student musicals. I know I'm already getting better, but I'm also working through "Christina Aguilara Teaches Singing" on Masterclass.com. My goal by the end of this year is to post at least one video to YouTube of me performing a song (playing piano and singing) that I'm happy with (I may post intermediate efforts in the process too, we'll see).

Continual Learning. I've already mentioned Masterclass.com, for which I picked up an annual subscription recently. As well as singing, I'm part way through a handful of masterclasses for things that I find interesting rather than useful. I think it's important to learn things for fun, not just out of necessity, so I'm going to try to make the most out of my year pass on that platform. I'm going to attempt to write reviews of each of the classes, and every book that I read this year - they might only be as long as a tweet, or a longer-form blog post - I'm not going to promise to necessarily blog more often - I've done that before and it just results in me being frustrated about starting and not finishing or posting a lot of content.
